Kintsugi: Nothing Gold can Stay

It’s difficult to think of a band that has pulled through the ranks of the independent scene from nothingness to the mainstream such as Ben Gibbard’s longest ongoing project. It’s hard to argue that there has ever been a band with more fervor within Washington’s underground music scene. Death Cab is the grandfather of a multitude of handlebar-mustache bands that were popular five years ago. Most of even their most dedicated fans would have trouble disagreeing with the idea that Death Cab are past their golden age.

So where does that leave Kintsugi? The name itself appropriated from the Japanese art of putting broken clay sculptures back together with gold lacquer—a romantic metaphor of turning something broken into something more beautiful.1 It’s almost bold of Gibbard to declare such a title for the record that his band lost [Walla] on. Both reviewers and fans alike cite the producer as at least a partial cause for Death Cab’s past successes.

### Beats and Pressure

There’s barely any spunk within most tracks because of this. It’s easy to defend this at first glance—most older records such as Something About Airplanes have a slower, punk slash emo feel that catered to an angsty and young fanbase. But you slowly start to realize that Kintsugi isn’t moody, it’s only boring.

There have been many comparisons of Hold No Guns to Follow You Into the Dark, which is sort of baffling considering how there’s just no hook, not even a chorus. 

As if there’s a secret message throughout the LP—backmasked underneath Gibbard’s flat singing—that he’s yearning; that he’s nostalgic. There are a multitude of allusions to past Death Cab records. [Cite examples] 

And I admittedly enjoy this album because of this. I’m a Death Cab fan, I enjoy the catharsis felt within the self deprecation and pity within the lyrics on top of the reverb of a poppy lead.